> ▶️ Ethics laid down to make you stronger: Narrate this to yourself, or the others with whom you have interactions. This will only make you stronger and not weaker. Keeping a clear communication and having a clear profile and attitude is detrimental to your success and to everything in your life. These are my own views and not related to anyone or any work. I keep this for my sanity. 

▶️ I don't work on the past, never ever and I work on the present to make a better future. If you believe that I work on the past and live in the past then you should ask and get this clarified. Seeing and assuming anything is free but it doesn't mean that it should be true. Therefore ask the person directly and when you ask the person directly then have the trust in the same. \
▶️ I have a lot to say about myself and to listen about them, so I don't speak about others. I don't spread negativity, criticism and any other such words. You should not entertain people, who spread negativity, criticism or anything without even knowing you. The reason being that they have lost their mental attitude that they are spilling words about a person, whom they have never met, never talked to and anything. So it means you talk about a communication that never happened and you talk about a person that you don't even know, then it means that you are talking about something, which dont even exist and these are signs of mental sickness. So if you trust then it is your fault and not the other person, who is spreading so before you blame the person, who is spreading, make an attempt to check the same. Ask them to confront the person, who is speaking and other approaches. \
▶️ I speak true words so that I can put my focus and attention to the work that really matters. A manipulator or attention seeker will speak false and his or her words will modulate every time and the best part they ask you to go silent and ask you not to speak about this to anyone, so in true words, you will spend your mind and thinking about those more and it will destroy your mental peace. This speaking truth gives me sanity as then people know where they stand and how they matter. Actually this will induce a kind of irrational behavior and attitude, which is baseless. \
▶️ I evaluate people by talking and not by anything else as when you talk to someone, you get to know them better than just by watching. I stay away from those people, who become your friend without even knowing you, talking to you and then become also your enemy. You should be way about such people as if they can do to others they can do the same to you. Basically they are making each other enemies, whereas you have a gift that if you want to talk to someone and if approached then you can say, sorry i am not interested and at the same time, you can say that i am interested. If the person has self respect, will understand this for the first time and if not then you cant put self respect in someone. In my image, those people who listen to others and close the connections are the dumbest people in this world as they prove that they have only one ear, so whatever you feed it will go into the brain. They don't have a filtering mechanism. \
▶️ Never listen to a person, who is talking excessively about others as it shows that he or she has nothing to talk about him or her and that is why they are invested in others. If you hear anything, and you have the ability to ask the person, always make an attempt to ask. You never know whether you are listening to the correct person or not. Putting others down will not raise me, or will bring me to glory that is why I invest my efforts in myself. I never work on imagination, I work on what is in front. You can have as many imaginations as you want, you can have as many guesses you want but there is no meaning in believing in them. I never approach anyones any person behind their back, and I strongly believe in this as this destroys an image that you are not a stable minded and there is more truth to it. Everyone has a different personality and if you approach and say and you might hear different and when you reciprocate you will not hear the same, leading to misunderstanding. \
▶️ If someone is saying bad things to me about others and the other person is important to me. I will say let me confront this to the other person because losing a person based on someone else's thinking is showing that i don't have a thinking of my own. Who knows that the person is speaking just because of jealousy or something else and whether it is right or not. I believe that once it is destroyed, reconciliation of the same is not as strong as it can be the first time. So believe in your acts when you do something. Never trust a person who establishes correlations and unnecessary thinking, as it is not about the psychology it is about that they can turn into any imaginary aspects and the outcomes are humiliating. \
▶️ If you are happy then you don't look into others. You only look into others when you are not happy. I don't make decisions on or for someone's happiness as that is taking someone's birth right to decide for himself or herself. Never trust a friend, employer who is giving more importance to the employee family than the employee itself. Why I say this is that the employee is the first line of the contact, so building his or her happiness will automatically build everything. You don't have to go out of the way to do anything else.  A friend who is more invested in an employee's family than the friend itself is the one, who is seeking the space in the family so that he or she can jump or break them according to their needs.  Therefore, the employer should give first importance to the employee as that builds confidence in the employee and gives a strength that i am getting the respect i deserve and my employer thinks about me. If you are more interested in my family members rather than building the relationship the employee at first, go and hire them first. \
▶️ I don't find people in other people as no two people can be the same. Those who waste their time doing this regret that they have destroyed everything by doing this.If someone has broken the relation with me based on someone else's words then I never search for them and neither do I think about them, as to me those people are the ones that are paying for what they have sown. This is a big point as who told you to believe, don't you have a mouth to ask?. and now since you have done, so i can't do anything about that. Why do I have to waste time thinking what is the reason?, this is not an ancient crisis. There are many people out there. \
▶️ I don’t interact with those people who are using their powers and energies in the wrong direction. Putting your energy in the wrong direction by listening to the wrong people is already a sign that they can put me on a wrong track and when you are on a wrong track, you don't show results instead you disturb other people, induce negativity and back talking and other in their lives and make a negative culture.So if someone says to me that we can talk about the other concerned person, i say that if you have the liberty to say in front of that person, what you are saying then it means you are saying truth else you are speaking false and i am not interested in taking part in such activities. \
▶️ I don’t waste time monitoring people as that will not give me anything. Neither do I look or search for any specific people as I have to do what others are doing. This is simply a waste of time that most people do as they lack the ability to talk to someone. When you don’t talk anyone can say anything, but when you talk among your people and everything then the outsiders know that we can’t spread assumptions or negativity as they will talk among themselves and the truth comes out. \
▶️ Ask yourself, who will make you stronger the person, who is speaking in front or the one that is taking behind and is afraid of taking in front about what he or she is speaking. I implement this always when someone says to me anything then i say that if you are correct then i should ask this and tell the concerned person and if you are afraid then i know that you are speaking lies and this helps me to see who is the correct person to keep along and with whom i should not keep contact. \
▶️ I dont care about what you wear, what operating system you use, what wallpaper you keep, which brands you are wearing or anything as those are your personal choices and that changes everything. I evaluate the person as a person and that is important as you dont put an evaluation on something, which changes everyday. Your knowledge and skills are important to me rather than anything else. Think about it. \
▶️ I always ask these questions to myself: do i know this person well enough, have i ever met, have i ever talked, have i ever spent time with the person. If the answer is not then i have no right to listen about the person from another person as anyone can feed me anything and if it turns out negative then it will be my loss and i will loose a person. So i take a proper approach by taking to the person and making my own decisions and approaches. \
▶️ I dont listen to the people useless and unecessary thinking as it takes a lot of time and effort to actually think about it and it is like wasting my time and energy in something, which is not going to give anything. \
▶️ I am a very frequent and highly communicative, so if it is there then it is there and if not then let me know, how we can make it possible. It is not a propertiery material that you own something. I believe in one aspect of keeping informed and staying communicative.  \
▶️ If I have to giving a hiring suggestion then i say that hire a person immediately if that is what is needed as if you are not going to then someone else will and it is not your propertiery material that once you have looked at it then you will not allow anyone else to hire but at the same time you will not hire. \
▶️ I never waste time in approaching and keeping communication as i believe that so called artificial intelligence was developed by people talking at tables and developing it and not something that computers or non-living things gave birth to, so i dont beleive in non-living approaches and believing in asking the person directly if i have the liberty to do so. \
▶️ If someone says to me that get involved in some activities that are of no value as that bring so much exhausted thinking and everything that you think what actually i have to do with it? and why i should get involved, so i dont take part and instead you can use that time in taking it off. I have never seen an educated person investing time in uneducated approaches. \
▶️ If someone says to me to approach another person then i have a very clear word as if you cant approach means you are not communicative, you are not open minded or you dont have good relations with the person. Sorry like you asked me, please approach the person directly and if the person is not replying or says that not interested in developing communication then it means the person doesnt want any communication, so you have your response and dont waste time further. I have no time in getting along such communications. \
▶️ I believe in supporting those people who can make out of something and not those who are only good in talking and everything but not demonstrating or showing anything. I believe that if you have nothing in front, you can have enormous number of assumptions about anything, but the output is nothing if those all are false and actually this waste a lot of time. So i spent my time and energy which shows something visible and not a speculation. \
▶️ I say this: Highly self respected and if someone said that not available or dont do this, i aim not to approach and not to do that at any cost. I am very generous and at the same time very ethical person.  \
▶️ I dont give second chance to anything and getting a second chance with me is next to impossible. So i tell people who have been with me, keep in mind that you will not have a second chance at any cost taking to me or coming along with me as i dont copy and paste and if you paste some glue on anything, you can still see cracks, which i dont like. \
▶️ I say this: Never speak lies as when it hits then it brings so much shame and also it makes you exhausted and everything. Keeping words clear and straight has helped me achieved proficiency in several programming languages as i am a self taught person, so i invested the time in the proper direction. \
▶️ I dont talk or have faith in those people, who impersonate others at any cost as losing your own identity and rpetending like others is an act, which establishes your image as a characterless person means think literally, you have lost your image and you have acquired someone else and impersonating them. So i stay away from such people. \
▶️ I am only responsible for what you hear from me directly and not what others are saying and what they think based on their assumptions and anything, I am not responsible for the same. If you have the ability to ask in front, you will have the straight reply and if not then i dont believe in those people, who speak behind as who knows whether they are speaking the truth or false, so if you have the liberty to ask a person directly ask them becasue that tells whethere it is there or not or someone else is trying to break your trust or anything. \
▶️ Nothing is as dangerous as a person who has a lot to speak but when ask for the proof then it says that it is not available, so it means those are approaches to make you sick and have no outcomes, so i stay away from such people. I ask if you are saying this then give me the proof of the same or else i should ask the person directly. If the answer is not availble in both the cases then it means it is an approach to establish a negative mindset and i dont support that at any cost. Making someone mentally sick and evaluating is not a fair approach, while enjoying yours. Imagine a person, who is afraid of coming in front and who only stays behind and speak, you will never ever see such a person, speaking the truth and whatever you loose, they dont care, they only care that they need weak people, who can believe them, so that they can sustain. \
▶️ I keep a very clean way of living and working. If you have build relations behind my back with people that i dont like or i havent approached or I am not aware of, i cut those people and also those who are involved. Imagine, a person not building direct relations with you and deciding for you based on someone else, so i have a clear word there go, talk and work with those. Not approaching me and approaching my side people is already a enough sign to show that i dont hold importance. \
▶️ I stay away from those people who evaluate others based on colour of clothes you are wearing, which wallpaper you are keeping, which songs you are listening, which directions you are looking, which hand or leg you are raising. As a human, you are born with such mental freshness and freedom that you can look in whatever direction you want, raise whatever hand you want to raise, listen to and say whatever you want to say unless it is not offensive and wear whatever you want to wear. The reason of not being getting involved in this evaluation is that i dont know why that person raised that hand that time, why that person raised that leg that time, why that person wear that colour that time, why that person was listening to that song that time. What i have to do, how can you define a person with these momentary points?. Imagine not giving a importance to a person standing in front and giving importance to ancillary aspects, which actually hold no importance. Point out a single person born on this planet, who look only straight and not in any other direction. Those who do this are dumb and brainless people wasting their time and wasting others time also. You will never make anything out of such people as they dont have actual brain but only a assumptive brain. 
> To correct such people say to them, here i give you everything that person have, now show me the same dedication, integrity and efforts and if you cant then dont approach me at any cost becasue speaking anything is free of cost but it takes time, dedication, integrity and effort to show visible results.
▶️ I keep personal and professional space and relations separate. This is a multi culture working environment and having people from different culture from different culture and different ethinicity is going to be there. I am not ok with having some people in my personal space but i have no objection or working constraints on working with them at work as when you work, you work for not yourself, you represent a bigger orgranization. However, your personal space is somehwat yours and to whom you want to be in that is entirely your personal decision. I did a lot of free and also paid courses from whereever it was coming to accelerate my skills and still do but very specific ones and that doesnt mean I developed personal relations or thinking about them. \
▶️ I stay away from those people who establish some associations without even letting know the other person, what actually that means. It is a kind of not letting know other person what is the meaning and keep on evaluating them at anything. If you will not let know the specifics then how the person will be able to know what is the meaning of this association and whatever you think and do has nothing to do with that person. 

I will continue to update this more… as I have several of them written and I appreciate your words here so that I can broaden my view and make my surroundings stronger. Thank you. 

Gaurav Sablok \
Academic Staff Member \
Bioinformatics \
Institute for Biochemistry and Biology \
University of Potsdam \
Potsdam,Germany




